907
FXUS62 KCHS 101812
AFDCHS

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Charleston SC
212 PM EDT Sun May 10 2026

.WHAT HAS CHANGED...
All sections updated.

&&

.KEY MESSAGES...
- 1) Periods of unsettled weather could continue into Tuesday. A
  few thunderstorms on Monday could become severe.

&&

.DISCUSSION...
KEY MESSAGE 1: Periods of unsettled weather could continue into
Tuesday. A few thunderstorms on Monday could become severe.

Through tonight: Aloft, nearly zonal flow will continue while a
subtle stationary surface boundary continues to stretch west-east
along the Gulf Coast. Morning light rain has completely dissipated
and the overall outlook through the evening is for minimal diurnal
convection. Though temperatures are on track to peak in the mid 80s
this afternoon, model soundings are quite unimpressive with meager
lapse rates. In the absence of any broad forcing or source of low-
level convergence, diurnal development will be dependent on surface
heating. The best chance of isolated showers and thunderstorms will
be across southeast GA along and south of I-16 where some
instability could pool. Hi-res model consensus is for little to no
activity with no real severe weather risk. Overnight, an upstream
cold front will draw closer but we should remain dry.

Monday: A shift from zonal flow to broad troughing will develop into
Monday as a mid-level trough swings eastward over the Great Lakes
and towards the East Coast. Along the southern flank of the broad
trough, a shortwave trough will dig across the Deep South Monday
into Monday night. At the surface a cold front will approach the
region from the west, pushing through the forecast area Monday
evening.

&&

.AVIATION /18Z SUNDAY THROUGH FRIDAY/...
VFR conditions are expected to prevail at KCHS, KJZI, and KSAV
through 18z Monday.

&&

.MARINE...
Through tonight: Quiet conditions will continue across the local
waters. A modest sea breeze should result in 10-15 knots along the
land/sea interface this afternoon and into the evening. Then
overnight, 5-10 knot southwest flow will prevail. Seas should
average around 2 feet through the period.

Extended Marine: Winds will gradually increase ahead of an
approaching cold front on Monday. The front will move through
the waters Monday evening, then quickly shift offshore Monday
night. There will be a surge of winds and building seas behind
the front, leading to Small Craft Advisories for at least the
inner waters. Gale conditions cannot be ruled out for the outer
waters Monday night. Conditions will quickly improve late
Tuesday through the remainder of the week as high pressure
becomes the dominant synoptic feature.

&&

.CHS WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
GA...None.
SC...None.
MARINE...None.

&&

$$
